# Joseph JACOBSON
###### jacobson@pobox.com


## TECHNICAL
**Industries:**  web services, cloud, streaming media, cellular/wireless, energy generation, bioinformatics, energy exploration, telecommunications, financial, healthcare, aerospace, government, defense

**Projects:**  configuration management, infrastructure automation, cloud computing, web services, performance monitoring, operations monitoring, high availability, 24x7 operations, disaster recovery, mail gateways, network utilities, shell utilities, embedded control systems, embedded operating systems, compilers


## EXPERIENCE
**Evernote**	*Philadelphia, PA*

**Engineering Manager, SRE**	*October 2019-Present*

Consistently meet and exceeded the target SRE SLO of 99.95%.  Was Incident
Manager for production issues, coordinated multiple cross-team incidents and
Postmortem reviews.  Owned the Postmortem process.  Oversaw important vendor
relations, owned the implementation of numerous company-wide tools and
instrumentation: Datadog, Splunk, Kubernetes.  Lead and executed complex
projects, demonstrated high-level judgement when evaluating risk and
trade-offs.  Oversaw and was instrumental in multiple highest priority
projects whose progress was monitored by Leadership Team:  JDK11, Monolith
upgrades, Disaster recovery readiness, APIGW, Akamai KSD.  For disaster
recovery and monolith upgrades, added zone-level redundancy while also
reduced cost by 25%.  Delivered a backup solution that protected customer
data for a longer period at lower cost.  Managed the team Jira projects and
weekly SRE team meetings, focusing on reliability, incident review, and
weekly releases.  Hired multiple staff level engineers, increasing team size
by 33%.  Experienced in managing remote teams.  Expert in many areas in
systems, automation, provisioning, and monitoring.


**Evernote**	*Philadelphia, PA*

**Senior Operations Engineer**	*October 2014-October 2019*

Specified requirements for updated virtualization solution and directed work
for updating operational tooling to support this.  Evaluated next generation
data encryption options.  Evaluated current server performance needs, tested
new server packages, RAID controllers, and NVMe based SSDs.  Datacenter
capacity planning, including standing up new rows. Puppet facter performance
improvements (ruby).  Acted as incident manager for production issues.
Built proxy servers to control and document outbound traffic flows, with
full metrics and alerting (squid, collectd, graphite).  Performed fleet wide
upgrades of critical firmware and software packages, and operating systems
upgrades (ansible, Debian).  Helped define architectural needs of move to
cloud enviroment (Google Compute Engine, Cloud Storage).  Defined
infrastructure requirements for cloud enviroment(s), and then setup admin
and configuration management stack in each (DHCP, DNS, puppet, innobackupex
(Percona), NFS, SMTP, SSH, Nagios, apt).  Wrote tooling for replication of
production servers into cloud environments.  Wrote tooling and procedures
for migration of production servers into cloud.  Defined requirements and
built environment for new datacenter.  Moved production critical email
services, (100Ks to millions per day), into new datacenter (postfix,Sophos).


**Evernote**	*Redwood City, CA*

**Senior Devops Engineer, Technical Operations Manager**	*July 2013-September 2014*

Instantiated additional security monitoring of web and application servers
(auditd, Splunk).  Project lead for service team, improving the metrics,
monitoring, and stability of the services (tomcat, mysql, monit).  Reduced
operations pages by 60% (PagerDuty).  Improved on-call schedule.  Improved
monitoring of all services (Nagios).  Built capacity reporting and
management tools (Graphite, collected).  Led project to migrate legacy
servers to new hardware.  Instituted POC project to augment Splunk with
LogStash.  Improved and expanded configuration management (puppet).
Instituted new orchestration tools (fabric, ansible).  Suggested better
interview and hiring criteria and methods.  Promoted to Technical Operations
Manager, responsible for infrastructure, (bare metal up to the application
stack), include all data centers, servers, operating system, and network.


**Comcast Interactive Media**	*Philadelphia, PA*

**Principal Systems Administrator**	*August 2010-July 2013*

Planned and updated entire infrastructure system.  Instituted source
revision control systems for infrastructure systems (Subversion, svn).
Converted legacy systems for use with configuration management software
(cfengine3).  Packaged software and built package repositories (pkgadd,
yum).  Setup data synchronization between datacenters for these new systems.
Documented standards and procedures, (Confluence), and trained team on these
new procedures.  Built DHCP/DDNS systems to decrease time for new hardware
from hours/days to minutes. Defined standards for Jumpstart and Kickstart,
built golden images for Solaris and RHEL (5 + 6).   Built and instituted
datacenter rack management tool (RackTables).  Proof of concepts systems for
monitoring and metrics (Nagios, Zenoss, SevOne, Graphite, collectd).
Defined and implemented SNMPv3 monitoring standard.  Provided
recommendations and architected improvements in the video ingestion
environment, increasing encoding throughput by 300%.  Stood up new clustered
NAS solution (Isilon).


**Amazon Web Services**	*Seattle, WA*

**Support Engineer**	*May 2008-August 2010*

Worked with daily and helped customers utilize the Amazon Web Services:
Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Simple Storage Service (S3), SimpleDB,
CloudFront, Simple Queue Service, and Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).  Duties
included helping customers architect their use cases in the cloud
environment, debugging performance issues, API development, beta-testing of
new services and features.  Coded interfaces to REST and query APIs.
Responsible for sensitive messaging to customers.  Participated in hiring
decisions and training of new hires.  Implemented test systems for mission
critical infrastructure.  Wrote various tools for internal use. Wrote guides
for debugging network performance issues.


